Add a tutorial for using :class:`~.Text` and :class:`Tex` (#1510)
ManimCommunity/manim: docs/source/tutorials/using_text.rst

    ``disable_ligatures`` parameter in :class:`~.Text` while rendering.

.. _Ligature: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ligature_(writing)

Using Gradients
---------------

You can use Gradient using the :attr:`~.Text.gradient`. The value must
be a Iterable or any Length.

For example,

.. manim:: GradientExample
    :save_last_frame:

    class GradientExample(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            t = Text("Hello", gradient=(RED, BLUE, GREEN)).scale(2)
            self.add(t)

.. _pangomarkup:

What is PangoMarkup?
====================

PangoMarkup is a small markup language like html and it helps you avoid using
"range of characters" while colouring or styling a piece a Text. You can use
this language with :class:`~.MarkupText`.

A simple example of a marked-up string might be::

    <span foreground="blue" size="x-large">Blue text</span> is <i>cool</i>!"

and it can be used with :class:`~.MarkupText` as 

.. manim:: MarkupExample
    :save_last_frame:

    class MarkupExample(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            text = MarkupText('<span foreground="blue" size="x-large">Blue text</span> is <i>cool</i>!"')
            self.add(text)

> 

Reviewer: I think everything from "MarkupElaborateExample" on is too detailed to be part of a tutorial.
I have in mind that tutorials should give you a broad overview of what manim is capable to do, and as `MarkupText` is one example class, it is appropriate to mention it in the tutorials, however, I would not explain all the possible flags and special use cases, that should go to the reference module.

Author: Sure, I will move all on ` What is PangoMarkup?` to MarkupText's reference and add simpler example's of using MarkupText text.

##########
Using Text
##########

There are two different way by which you can render **Text** in videos.

1. Using Pango (:mod:`~.text_mobject`)
2. Using LaTeX (:mod:`~.tex_mobject`)

If you want to render simple Text, you should use either :class:`~.Text` or 
:class:`~.MarkupText` or one of it's detrivaties like :class:`~.Paragraph`.
See :ref:`using-text-objects` for more information.

LaTeX should only be used when you need Mathematical Typesetting.

.. _using-text-objects:

Rendering Text without using LaTeX 
**********************************

The simplest way to add text to your animations is to use the :class:`~.Text`
class. It uses the `Pango library`_ to render text. With Pango, you can also
render non-English alphabets like `你好` or  `こんにちは` or `안녕하세요` or
`مرحبا بالعالم`.

Here, is a simple Hello World animation.

.. manim:: HelloWorld

    class HelloWorld(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            text = Text('Hello world').scale(3)

>             self.play(FadeIn(text))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            self.add(text)
```

Author: Done https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1510/commits/2b2642ce81e79fa60b50144350eafcf883b35bec

By disabling ligatures you would get a 1-1 mapping between characters and
submobjects. This would fix coloring issue's. 

.. warning::

    Be aware that using this method with a text which heavily needs
    ligatures may not work as expected. For example, when disabling
    ligatures with Arabic text the output doesn't looks as expected.

You can disable ligatures by passing ``disable_ligatures`` parameter to 
:class:`Text`. For example,

.. manim:: DisableLigature

    class DisableLigature(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            li = Text("fl ligature").scale(2)
            nli = Text("fl ligature", disable_ligatures=True).scale(2)
            self.add(Group(li, nli).arrange(DOWN, buff=.8))

.. _iterating-text:

Iterating :class:`~.Text`
-------------------------

Text objects behave like a VGroup-like iterable of all characters in the given
text. In particular, slicing is possible.

For example, you can set each letter to different color by iterating it.

.. manim:: IterateColor

    class IterateColor(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            text = Text("Colors").scale(2)
            for letter in text:
                letter.set_color(random_bright_color())

>                 self.play(Write(letter))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            self.add(text)
```
This animation is really long and can be archived far easier by using `Write(text, lag_ratio=1)` using a long runtime.
Also I don't think it needs to be animated.

Author: Done https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1510/commits/2b2642ce81e79fa60b50144350eafcf883b35bec

##########
Using Text
##########

There are two different way by which you can render **Text** in videos:

1. Using Pango (:mod:`~.text_mobject`)
2. Using LaTeX (:mod:`~.tex_mobject`)

> If you want to render simple Text, you should use either :class:`~.Text` or 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to render simple text, you should use either :class:`~.Text` or 
```

> :class:`~.MarkupText` or one of it's detrivaties like :class:`~.Paragraph`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:class:`~.MarkupText`, or one of its derivatives like :class:`~.Paragraph`.
```

See :ref:`using-text-objects` for more information.

> LaTeX should only be used when you need Mathematical Typesetting. See 

Reviewer 3: I dislike "only", if one prefers LaTeX typesetting for regular text, they are also free to use it.

```suggestion
LaTeX should be used when you need mathematical typesetting. See 
```

:ref:`rendering-with-latex` for more information.

.. _using-text-objects:

Text Without LaTeX
******************

The simplest way to add text to your animations is to use the :class:`~.Text`
class. It uses the `Pango library`_ to render text. With Pango, you can also
render non-English alphabets like `你好` or  `こんにちは` or `안녕하세요` or

> `مرحبا بالعالم`.

Reviewer 3: Is it intended that the non-unicode text is set in literals? (Code literals would need a double pair of apostrophes.)

Author: I think that can be changed to
```suggestion
render non-English alphabets like 你好 or  こんにちは or 안녕하세요 or
مرحبا بالعالم.
```

> Here is a simple Hello World animation.

Reviewer 3: optional: emphasis on example name

```suggestion
Here is a simple *Hello World* animation.
```

.. manim:: HelloWorld 
    :save_last_frame:
    :ref_classes: Text

    class HelloWorld(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            text = Text("Hello world").scale(3)
            self.add(text)

> You can also use :class:`~.MarkupText` where PangoMarkup (:class:`~.MarkupText`)
> can be used to render text. For example:

Reviewer 3: The double reference to MarkupText is a bit confusing, I've tried adding a bit more context.

```suggestion
You can also use :class:`~.MarkupText` which allows the use of PangoMarkup
(see the documentation of :class:`~.MarkupText` for details) to render text.
For example:
```

            self.add(col)

You can use utilities like :attr:`~.Text.t2c` for coloring specific characters.
This may be problematic if your text contains ligatures
as explained in :ref:`iterating-text`.

:attr:`~Text.t2c` accepts two types of dictionaries,

* The keys can contain indices like ``[2:-1]`` or ``[4:8]``, 
  this works similar to how `slicing <https://realpython.com/python-strings/#string-slicing>`_
  works in Python. The values should be the color of the Text from :class:`~.Color`.
  

* The keys contain words or characters which should be colored separately
  and the values should be the color from :class:`~.Color`:

.. manim:: Textt2cExample
    :save_last_frame:

    class Textt2cExample(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            t2cindices = Text('Hello', t2c={'[1:-1]': BLUE}).move_to(LEFT)
            t2cwords = Text('World',t2c={'rl':RED}).next_to(t2cindices, RIGHT)
            self.add(t2cindices, t2cwords)

If you want to avoid problems when using colors (due to ligatures), consider using
:class:`MarkupText`.

Using Gradients
---------------

You can add a gradient using :attr:`~.Text.gradient`. The value must

> be an Iterable of any length:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
be an iterable of any length:
```

.. manim:: GradientExample
    :save_last_frame:

    class GradientExample(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            t = Text("Hello", gradient=(RED, BLUE, GREEN)).scale(2)
            self.add(t)

You can also use :attr:`~.Text.t2g` for gradients with specific 
characters of the text. It shares a similar syntax to :ref:`Using Colors`:

.. manim:: t2gExample
    :save_last_frame:

    class t2gExample(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            t2gindices = Text(
                'Hello',
                t2g={
                    '[1:-1]': (RED,GREEN),
                },
            ).move_to(LEFT)
            t2gwords = Text(
                'World',
                t2g={
                    'World':(RED,BLUE),
                },
            ).next_to(t2gindices, RIGHT)
            self.add(t2gindices, t2gwords)

Setting Line Spacing
--------------------

> You can set line spacing using :attr:`~.Text.line_spacing`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can set the line spacing using :attr:`~.Text.line_spacing`:
```

.. manim:: LineSpacing
    :save_last_frame:

    class LineSpacing(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            a = Text("Hello\nWorld", line_spacing=1)
            b = Text("Hello\nWorld", line_spacing=4)
            self.add(Group(a,b).arrange(LEFT, buff=5))

.. _disable-ligatures:

Disabling Ligatures
-------------------

By disabling ligatures you would get a one-to-one mapping between characters and
submobjects. This fixes the issues with coloring text. 

.. warning::

    Be aware that using this method with text that heavily depends on
    ligatures (Arabic text) may yield unexpected results.

You can disable ligatures by passing ``disable_ligatures`` to 
:class:`Text`. For example:

.. manim:: DisableLigature
    :save_last_frame:

    class DisableLigature(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            li = Text("fl ligature").scale(2)
            nli = Text("fl ligature", disable_ligatures=True).scale(2)
            self.add(Group(li, nli).arrange(DOWN, buff=.8))

.. _iterating-text:

Iterating :class:`~.Text`
-------------------------

> Text objects behave like :class`~.VGroup`s. Therefore, you can slice and index

Reviewer 3: This doesn't render correctly. (I usually fail to get the link syntax right in my first attempt, but it should look more or less like in the suggestion below.)

```suggestion
Text objects behave like :class:`VGroups <.VGroup>`. Therefore, you can slice and index
```

Author: Maybe if I'm not wrong there should be a `~`?
```suggestion
Text objects behave like :class:`VGroups <~.VGroup>`. Therefore, you can slice and index
```

Reviewer 3: No: `~` only causes the name to be abbreviated when not specifying a custom link text. But it is possible that an underscore is necessary; not sure about that:

```suggestion
Text objects behave like :class`VGroups <.VGroup>`_. Therefore, you can slice and index
```

(I'm confident that one of our three suggestions here is correct. :-))

the text.

For example, you can set each letter to different color by iterating it.

.. manim:: IterateColor
    :save_last_frame:

    class IterateColor(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            text = Text("Colors").scale(2)
            for letter in text:
                letter.set_color(random_bright_color())
            self.add(text)

.. warning::

    Please note that `Ligature`_ can cause problems here. If you need a
    one-to-one mapping of characters to submobjects you should pass
    the ``disable_ligatures`` parameter to :class:`~.Text`.

>     See :ref:`disable-ligatures`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    See :ref:`disable-ligatures`.
```

.. _Ligature: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ligature_(writing)

Working with :class:`~.MarkupText`
==================================

MarkupText is similar to :class:`~.Text`, the only difference between them is 

> that this accepts PangoMarkup (which is similar to html), instead of text.

Reviewer 3: Maybe be a bit more explicit here?

```suggestion
that this accepts and processes PangoMarkup (which is similar to
html), instead of just rendering plain text.
```

> You can find the reference of PangoMarkup in :class:`~.MarkupText`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Consult the documentation of :class:`~.MarkupText` for more details
and further references about PangoMarkup.
```

.. manim:: MarkupTest 
    :save_last_frame:

    class MarkupTest(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            text = MarkupText(
                f'<span underline="double" underline_color="green">double green underline</span> in red text<span fgcolor="{YELLOW}"> except this</span>',
                color=RED,
            ).scale(0.7)
            self.add(text)

.. _rendering-with-latex:

Text With LaTeX
***************

Just as you can use :class:`~.Text` to add text to your videos, you can
use :class:`~.Tex` to insert LaTeX.

For example,

.. manim:: HelloLaTeX 
    :save_last_frame:

    class HelloLaTeX(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            tex = Tex(r"\LaTeX").scale(3)
            self.add(tex)

.. note::

    Note that we are using a raw string (``r'...'``) instead of a regular string (``r'...'``).
    This is because TeX code uses a lot of special characters - like ``\`` for example - that
    have special meaning within a regular python string. An alternative would have been to

>     write \\ : Tex('\\LaTeX').

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    write ``\\`` to escape the backslash: ``Tex('\\LaTeX')``.
```

Working with :class:`~.MathTex`
===============================

> Everything passed to :class:`~.MathTex` is in Math Mode by default i.e., everything is enclosed
> with ``$`` when passed to LaTeX. The same can be done using :class:`~.Tex` by adding ``$``:

Reviewer 3: The current statement is not quite right. This is more correct:

```suggestion
Everything passed to :class:`~.MathTex` is in math mode by default. To be more precise,
:class:`~.MathTex` is processed within an ``align*`` environment. You can achieve a
similar effect with :class:`~.Tex` by enclosing your formula with ``$`` symbols:
```

    :save_last_frame:

    class IncorrectLaTeXSubstringColoring(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            equation = MathTex(
                r"e^x = x^0 + x^1 + \frac{1}{2} x^2 + \frac{1}{6} x^3 + \cdots + \frac{1}{n!} x^n + \cdots"
            )
            equation.set_color_by_tex("x", YELLOW)
            self.add(equation)

As you can see, this colors the entire equation yellow, contrary to what 
may be expected. To color only ``x`` yellow, we have to do the following:

.. manim:: CorrectLaTeXSubstringColoring
    :save_last_frame:

    class CorrectLaTeXSubstringColoring(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            equation = MathTex(
                r"e^x = x^0 + x^1 + \frac{1}{2} x^2 + \frac{1}{6} x^3 + \cdots + \frac{1}{n!} x^n + \cdots",
                substrings_to_isolate="x"
            )
            equation.set_color_by_tex("x", YELLOW)
            self.add(equation)

By setting ``substring_to_isolate`` to ``x``, we split up the
:class:`~.MathTex` into substrings automatically and isolate the ``x`` components 
into individual substrings. Only then can :meth:`~.set_color_by_tex` be used 
to achieve the desired result.

> 

Reviewer 3: I suggest to add the following paragraph on the custom `{{...}}` syntax that Manim supports.

```suggestion

Note that Manim also supports a custom syntax that allows splitting
a TeX string into substrings easily: simply enclose parts of your formula
that you want to isolate with double braces. In the string
``MathTex(r"{{ a^2 }} + {{ b^2 }} = {{ c^2 }}")``, the rendered mobject
will consist of the substrings ``a^2``, ``+``, ``b^2``, ``=``, and ``c^2``.
This makes transformations between similar text fragments easy
to write using :class:`~.TransformMatchingTex`.

```

For example,

.. manim:: HelloLaTeX 
    :save_last_frame:

    class HelloLaTeX(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            tex = Tex(r"\LaTeX").scale(3)
            self.add(tex)

.. note::

    Note that we are using a raw string (``r'...'``) instead of a regular string (``r'...'``).
    This is because TeX code uses a lot of special characters - like ``\`` for example - that
    have special meaning within a regular python string. An alternative would have been to
    write \\ : Tex('\\LaTeX').

Working with :class:`~.MathTex`
===============================

Everything passed to :class:`~.MathTex` is in Math Mode by default i.e., everything is enclosed
with ``$`` when passed to LaTeX:

.. manim:: MathTeXDemo 
    :save_last_frame:

    class MathTeXDemo(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            rtarrow = MathTex(r"\xrightarrow{x^6y^8}").scale(2)
            self.add(rtarrow)

The same can be done using :class:`~.Tex` by adding ``$``:
``$\xrightarrow{x^6y^8}$``

.. manim:: TeXToMathTex 
    :save_last_frame:

    class TeXToMathTex(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            rtarrow = Tex(r"$\xrightarrow{x^6y^8}$").scale(2)

>             self.add(rtarrow)

Reviewer 4: Saving some space by combining two scenes into one.
```suggestion
Everything passed to :class:`~.MathTex` is in Math Mode by default i.e., everything is enclosed
with ``$`` when passed to LaTeX. The same can be done using :class:`~.Tex` by adding ``$``:
``$\xrightarrow{x^6y^8}$``:

.. manim:: MathTeXDemo 
    :save_last_frame:

    class MathTeXDemo(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            rtarrow0 = MathTex(r"\xrightarrow{x^6y^8}").scale(2)
            rtarrow1 = Tex(r"$\xrightarrow{x^6y^8}$").scale(2).

            self.add(VGroup(rtarrow0, rtarrow1).arrange(DOWN)

Setting Line Spacing
--------------------

You can set the line spacing using :attr:`~.Text.line_spacing`:

.. manim:: LineSpacing
    :save_last_frame:

    class LineSpacing(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            a = Text("Hello\nWorld", line_spacing=1)
            b = Text("Hello\nWorld", line_spacing=4)
            self.add(Group(a,b).arrange(LEFT, buff=5))

.. _disable-ligatures:

Disabling Ligatures
-------------------

By disabling ligatures you would get a one-to-one mapping between characters and
submobjects. This fixes the issues with coloring text. 

.. warning::

    Be aware that using this method with text that heavily depends on
    ligatures (Arabic text) may yield unexpected results.

You can disable ligatures by passing ``disable_ligatures`` to 
:class:`Text`. For example:

.. manim:: DisableLigature
    :save_last_frame:

    class DisableLigature(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            li = Text("fl ligature").scale(2)
            nli = Text("fl ligature", disable_ligatures=True).scale(2)
            self.add(Group(li, nli).arrange(DOWN, buff=.8))

.. _iterating-text:

Iterating :class:`~.Text`
-------------------------

> Text objects behave like :class`VGroups <.VGroup>`_. Therefore, you can slice and index

Author: This doesn't work. 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/49693820/123813938-eafcb200-d912-11eb-88cf-abe47431aacb.png)

Do we really need to add that `s` there? I like this
```suggestion
Text objects behave like :class`~VGroups`. Therefore, you can slice and index
```

Reviewer 3: The colon after class is missing.

Author: Ok then another try
```suggestion
Text objects behave like :class:`VGroups <.VGroup>`_. Therefore, you can slice and index
```

> Text objects behave like :class:`VGroups <.VGroup>`_. Therefore, you can slice and index

Reviewer 3: One final try, without underscore.

```suggestion
Text objects behave like :class:`VGroups <.VGroup>`. Therefore, you can slice and index
```

        def construct(self):
            ft = Text("Noto Sans", font="Noto Sans")
            self.add(ft)

Setting Slant and Weight
------------------------
Slant is the style of the Text, and it can be ``NORMAL`` (the default), 
``ITALIC``, ``OBLIQUE``. Usually, for many fonts both ``ITALIC`` and
``OBLIQUE`` looks similar, but ``ITALIC`` uses **Roman Style**, which 
``OBLIQUE`` uses **Italic Style**.

Weight specifies the boldness of a font. You can see a list in
:class:`manimpango.Weight`.

.. manim:: SlantsExample
    :save_last_frame:

    class SlantsExample(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            a = Text("Italic", slant=ITALIC)
            self.add(a)

.. manim:: DifferentWeight 
    :save_last_frame:

    class DifferentWeight(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            import manimpango

            g = VGroup()
            weight_list = dict(sorted({weight: manimpango.Weight(weight).value for weight in manimpango.Weight}.items(), key=lambda x: x[1]))
            for weight in weight_list:
                g += Text(weight.name, weight=weight.name, font="Open Sans")
            self.add(g.arrange(DOWN).scale(0.5))

Using Colors
------------

> You can set the color of the text using :attr:`~.Text.color`.
> 
> For example,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can set the color of the text using :attr:`~.Text.color`:
```

.. manim:: SimpleColor
    :save_last_frame:

    class SimpleColor(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            col = Text("RED COLOR", color=RED)
            self.add(col)

> You can use utilities like :attr:`~.Text.t2c` for coloring specific characters 
> from others. This may be problematic if your text contains ligatures
> as explained in :ref:`iterating-text`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can use utilities like :attr:`~.Text.t2c` for coloring specific characters.
This may be problematic if your text contains ligatures
as explained in :ref:`iterating-text`.
```

:attr:`~Text.t2c` accepts two types of dictionaries,

* The keys can contain indices like ``[2:-1]`` or ``[4:8]``, 
  this works similar to how `slicing <https://realpython.com/python-strings/#string-slicing>`_
  works in Python. The values should be the color of the Text from :class:`~.Color`.
  

* The keys contain words or characters which should be colored separately

>   and the values should be the color from :class:`~.Color`.
> 
> For example,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  and the values should be the color from :class:`~.Color`:
```

.. manim:: Textt2cExample
    :save_last_frame:

    class Textt2cExample(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            t2cindices = Text('Hello', t2c={'[1:-1]': BLUE}).move_to(LEFT)
            t2cwords = Text('World',t2c={'rl':RED}).next_to(t2cindices, RIGHT)
            self.add(t2cindices, t2cwords)

If you want to avoid problems when using colors (due to ligatures), consider using
:class:`MarkupText`.

Using Gradients
---------------

You can add a gradient using :attr:`~.Text.gradient`. The value must

> be a Iterable of any length.
> 
> For example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
be an Iterable of any length:
```

.. manim:: GradientExample
    :save_last_frame:

    class GradientExample(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            t = Text("Hello", gradient=(RED, BLUE, GREEN)).scale(2)
            self.add(t)

You can also use :attr:`~.Text.t2g` for gradients with specific 

> characters of the text. It shares a similar syntax to :ref:`Using Colors`.
> 
> For example,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
characters of the text. It shares a similar syntax to :ref:`Using Colors`:
```

.. manim:: t2gExample
    :save_last_frame:

    class t2gExample(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            t2gindices = Text(
                'Hello',
                t2g={
                    '[1:-1]': (RED,GREEN),
                },
            ).move_to(LEFT)
            t2gwords = Text(
                'World',
                t2g={
                    'World':(RED,BLUE),
                },
            ).next_to(t2gindices, RIGHT)
            self.add(t2gindices, t2gwords)

Setting Line Spacing
--------------------

> You can set line spacing using :attr:`~.Text.line_spacing`.
> For example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can set line spacing using :attr:`~.Text.line_spacing`:
```

        def construct(self):
            text = Text("Colors").scale(2)
            for letter in text:
                letter.set_color(random_bright_color())
            self.add(text)

.. warning::

    Please note that `Ligature`_ can cause problems here. If you need a
    one-to-one mapping of characters to submobjects you should pass
    the ``disable_ligatures`` parameter to :class:`~.Text`.
    See :ref:`disable-ligatures`

.. _Ligature: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ligature_(writing)

Working with :class:`~.MarkupText`
==================================

MarkupText is similar to :class:`~.Text`, the only difference between them is 
that this accepts PangoMarkup (which is similar to html), instead of text.

You can find the reference of PangoMarkup in :class:`~.MarkupText`.

.. manim:: MarkupTest 
    :save_last_frame:

    class MarkupTest(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            text = MarkupText(
                f'<span underline="double" underline_color="green">double green underline</span> in red text<span fgcolor="{YELLOW}"> except this</span>',
                color=RED,
            ).scale(0.7)
            self.add(text)

.. _rendering-with-latex:

> Text (LaTeX)

Author: I had something similar, but @kolibril13 asked me to change https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1510#issuecomment-864518255

Do you have a better idea for title?

> Text (LaTeX)

Reviewer 4: Maybe dropping the `rendering` and just `Text With LaTeX`?

************

Just as you can use :class:`~.Text` to add text to your videos, you can
use :class:`~.Tex` to insert LaTeX.

For example,

.. manim:: HelloLaTeX 
    :save_last_frame:

    class HelloLaTeX(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            tex = Tex(r"\LaTeX").scale(3)
            self.add(tex)

.. note::

    Note that we are using a raw string (``r'...'``) instead of a regular string (``r'...'``).
    This is because TeX code uses a lot of special characters - like ``\`` for example - that
    have special meaning within a regular python string. An alternative would have been to
    write \\ : Tex('\\LaTeX').

Working with :class:`~.MathTex`
===============================

Everything passed to :class:`~.MathTex` is in Math Mode by default i.e., everything is enclosed

> with ``$`` when passed to LaTeX.
> 
> For example,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
with ``$`` when passed to LaTeX:
```

.. manim:: MathTeXDemo 
    :save_last_frame:

    class MathTeXDemo(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            rtarrow = MathTex(r"\xrightarrow{x^6y^8}").scale(2)
            self.add(rtarrow)

The same can be done using :class:`~.Tex` by adding ``$``:
``$\xrightarrow{x^6y^8}$``

.. manim:: TeXToMathTex 
    :save_last_frame:

    class TeXToMathTex(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            rtarrow = Tex(r"$\xrightarrow{x^6y^8}$").scale(2)
            self.add(rtarrow)

LaTeX commands and keyword arguments
====================================

> We can use any standard LaTeX commands in the AMS maths packages. For
> example the ``mathtt`` math-text type, or the ``looparrowright`` arrow.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We can use any standard LaTeX commands in the AMS maths packages. Such
as the ``mathtt`` math-text type or the ``looparrowright`` arrow.
```

* The keys can contain indices like ``[2:-1]`` or ``[4:8]``, 
  this works similar to how `slicing <https://realpython.com/python-strings/#string-slicing>`_
  works in Python. The values should be the color of the Text from :class:`~.Color`.
  
  .. note:: Negative indices are also supported.

* The keys contain words or character which should be coloured separately
  and the values should be the color from :class:`~.Color`.

For example,

.. manim:: Textt2cExample
    :save_last_frame:

    class Textt2cExample(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            t2cindices = Text('Hello', t2c={'[1:-1]': BLUE}).move_to(LEFT)
            t2cwords = Text('World',t2c={'rl':RED}).next_to(t2cindices, RIGHT)
            self.add(t2cindices, t2cwords)

If you want avoid problems when colours(due to ligatures), consider using
:class:`MarkupText`.

Using Gradients
---------------

You can use Gradient using :attr:`~.Text.gradient`. The value must
be a Iterable of any Length.

For example,

.. manim:: GradientExample
    :save_last_frame:

    class GradientExample(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            t = Text("Hello", gradient=(RED, BLUE, GREEN)).scale(2)
            self.add(t)

> You can also use :attr:`~.Text.t2g` for using gradients with specific 
> characters of the Text. It has a very similar syntax like 
> :ref:`Using Colors`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can also use :attr:`~.Text.t2g` for gradients with specific 
characters of the text. It shares a similar syntax to :ref:`Using Colors`.
```

For example,

.. manim:: t2gExample
    :save_last_frame:

    class t2gExample(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            t2gindices = Text(
                'Hello',
                t2g={
                    '[1:-1]': (RED,GREEN),
                },
            ).move_to(LEFT)
            t2gwords = Text(
                'World',
                t2g={
                    'World':(RED,BLUE),
                },
            ).next_to(t2gindices, RIGHT)
            self.add(t2gindices, t2gwords)

Setting Line Spacing
--------------------

You can set line spacing using :attr:`~.Text.line_spacing`.

> For example,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example:
```

.. manim:: LineSpacing
    :save_last_frame:

    class LineSpacing(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            a = Text("Hello\nWorld", line_spacing=1)
            b = Text("Hello\nWorld", line_spacing=4)
            self.add(Group(a,b).arrange(LEFT, buff=5))

.. _disable-ligatures:

Disabling Ligatures
-------------------

> By disabling ligatures you would get a 1-1 mapping between characters and

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By disabling ligatures you would get a one-to-one mapping between characters and
```

> submobjects. This would fix coloring issue's. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
submobjects. This would fix some issues with coloring text. 
```

.. warning::

>     Be aware that using this method with a text which heavily needs
>     ligatures may not work as expected. For example, when disabling
>     ligatures with Arabic text the output doesn't looks as expected.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Be aware that using this method with text that heavily depends on
    ligatures (Arabic text) may yield unexpected results.
```

> You can disable ligatures by passing ``disable_ligatures`` parameter to 
> :class:`Text`. For example,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can disable ligatures by passing ``disable_ligatures`` to 
:class:`Text`. For example:
```

.. manim:: DisableLigature
    :save_last_frame:

    class DisableLigature(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            li = Text("fl ligature").scale(2)
            nli = Text("fl ligature", disable_ligatures=True).scale(2)
            self.add(Group(li, nli).arrange(DOWN, buff=.8))

.. _iterating-text:

Iterating :class:`~.Text`
-------------------------

> Text objects behave like a VGroup-like iterable of all characters in the given
> text. In particular, slicing is possible.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Text objects behave like :class`~.VGroup`s. Therefore, you can slice and index
the text.
```

For example, you can set each letter to different color by iterating it.

.. manim:: IterateColor
    :save_last_frame:

    class IterateColor(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            text = Text("Colors").scale(2)
            for letter in text:
                letter.set_color(random_bright_color())
            self.add(text)

.. warning::

>     Please note that `Ligature`_ can cause problems here. If you need a
>     one-one mapping of characters to submobjects you should use 
>     ``disable_ligatures`` parameter in :class:`~.Text` while rendering.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Please note that `Ligature`_ can cause problems here. If you need a
    one-to-one mapping of characters to submobjects you should pass
    the ``disable_ligatures`` parameter to :class:`~.Text`.
```

    See :ref:`disable-ligatures`

.. _Ligature: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ligature_(writing)

Working with :class:`~.MarkupText`
==================================

MarkupText is similar to :class:`~.Text`, the only difference between them is 

> that this accepts PangoMarkup(which are similar to html), instead of text.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
that this accepts PangoMarkup (which is similar to html), instead of text.
```

You can find the reference of PangoMarkup in :class:`~.MarkupText`.

.. manim:: MarkupTest 
    :save_last_frame:

    class MarkupTest(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            text = MarkupText(
                f'<span underline="double" underline_color="green">double green underline</span> in red text<span fgcolor="{YELLOW}"> except this</span>',
                color=RED,
            ).scale(0.7)
            self.add(text)

.. _rendering-with-latex:

Text (LaTeX)
************

Just as you can use :class:`~.Text` to add text to your videos, you can
use :class:`~.Tex` to insert LaTeX.

For example,

.. manim:: HelloLaTeX 
    :save_last_frame:

    class HelloLaTeX(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            tex = Tex(r"\LaTeX").scale(3)
            self.add(tex)

.. note::

>     Note that we are using a raw string (``r'...'``) instead of a regular string (``r'...'``)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Note that we are using a raw string (``r'...'``) instead of a regular string (``r'...'``).
```

    This is because TeX code uses a lot of special characters - like ``\`` for example - that
    have special meaning within a regular python string. An alternative would have been to

>     write \\ as in Tex('\\LaTeX').

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    write \\ : Tex('\\LaTeX').
```

Working with :class:`~.MathTex`
===============================

> Everything passed to :class:`~.MathTex` is LaTeX Math Mode by default ie) everything is enclosed
> with ``$`` when passed to LaTeX.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Everything passed to :class:`~.MathTex` is in Math Mode by default i.e., everything is enclosed
with ``$`` when passed to LaTeX.
```

For example,

.. manim:: MathTeXDemo 
    :save_last_frame:

    class MathTeXDemo(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            rtarrow = MathTex(r"\xrightarrow{x^6y^8}").scale(2)
            self.add(rtarrow)

> The same can be done using :class:`~.Tex` by adding ``$`` using

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The same can be done using :class:`~.Tex` by adding ``$``:
```

``$\xrightarrow{x^6y^8}$``

.. manim:: TeXToMathTex 
    :save_last_frame:

    class TeXToMathTex(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            rtarrow = Tex(r"$\xrightarrow{x^6y^8}$").scale(2)
            self.add(rtarrow)

LaTeX commands and keyword arguments
====================================

We can use any standard LaTeX commands in the AMS maths packages. For
example the ``mathtt`` math-text type, or the ``looparrowright`` arrow.

.. manim:: AMSLaTeX
    :save_last_frame:

    class AMSLaTeX(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            tex = Tex(r'$\mathtt{H} \looparrowright$ \LaTeX').scale(3)
            self.add(tex)

> On the manim side, the :class:`~.Tex` class also accepts attributes to 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
On the Manim side, the :class:`~.Tex` class also accepts attributes to 
```

change the appearance of the output. This is very similar to the 
:class:`~.Text` class. For example, the ``color`` keyword changes the
color of the TeX mobject.

.. manim:: LaTeXAttributes
    :save_last_frame:

    class LaTeXAttributes(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            tex = Tex(r'Hello \LaTeX', color=BLUE).scale(3)
            self.add(tex)

Extra LaTeX Packages
====================

Some commands require special packages to be loaded into the TeX template. 
For example, to use the ``mathscr`` script, we need to add the ``mathrsfs``

> package. Since this package isn't loaded into manim's tex template by default,
> we add it manually.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
package. Since this package isn't loaded into Manim's tex template by default,
we have to add it manually.
```

.. manim:: AddPackageLatex
    :save_last_frame:

    class AddPackageLatex(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            myTemplate = TexTemplate()
            myTemplate.add_to_preamble(r"\usepackage{mathrsfs}")
            tex = Tex(r'$\mathscr{H} \rightarrow \mathbb{H}$}', tex_template=myTemplate).scale(3)
            self.add(tex)

Substrings and parts
====================

The TeX mobject can accept multiple strings as arguments. Afterwards you can

> refer to the individual parts either by their index (like ``tex[1]``), or you
> can look them up by (parts of) the tex code like in this example where we set 
> the color of the ``\bigstar`` using :func:`~.set_color_by_tex`:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
refer to the individual parts either by their index (like ``tex[1]``), or by
selecting parts of the tex code. In this example, we set the color
of the ``\bigstar`` using :func:`~.set_color_by_tex`:
```

.. manim:: LaTeXSubstrings
    :save_last_frame:

    class LaTeXSubstrings(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            tex = Tex('Hello', r'$\bigstar$', r'\LaTeX').scale(3)
            tex.set_color_by_tex('igsta', RED)
            self.add(tex)

Note that :func:`~.set_color_by_tex` colors the entire substring containing

> the Tex searched for, not just the specific symbol or Tex expression searched
> for. Consider the following example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the Tex, not just the specific symbol or Tex expression. Consider the following example:
```

.. manim:: IncorrectLaTeXSubstringColoring
    :save_last_frame:

    class IncorrectLaTeXSubstringColoring(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            equation = MathTex(
                r"e^x = x^0 + x^1 + \frac{1}{2} x^2 + \frac{1}{6} x^3 + \cdots + \frac{1}{n!} x^n + \cdots"
            )
            equation.set_color_by_tex("x", YELLOW)
            self.add(equation)

As you can see, this colors the entire equation yellow, contrary to what 
may be expected. To color only ``x`` yellow, we have to do the following:

.. manim:: CorrectLaTeXSubstringColoring
    :save_last_frame:

    class CorrectLaTeXSubstringColoring(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            equation = MathTex(
                r"e^x = x^0 + x^1 + \frac{1}{2} x^2 + \frac{1}{6} x^3 + \cdots + \frac{1}{n!} x^n + \cdots",
                substrings_to_isolate="x"
            )
            equation.set_color_by_tex("x", YELLOW)
            self.add(equation)

By setting ``substring_to_isolate`` to ``x``, we split up the

> :class:`~.MathTex` into substrings automatically and isolate ``x`` components 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:class:`~.MathTex` into substrings automatically and isolate the ``x`` components 
```

into individual substrings. Only then can :meth:`~.set_color_by_tex` be used 

> to achieve the desired result

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
to achieve the desired result.
```

LaTeX Maths Fonts - The Template Library
========================================

> Changing fonts in LaTeX when typesetting mathematical formulae is 
> a little bit more tricky than with regular text. It requires changing
> the template that is used to compile the tex code. Manim comes with a
> collection of :class:`~.TexFontTemplates` ready for you to use. These
> templates will all work in maths mode:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Changing fonts in LaTeX when typesetting mathematical formulae is 
tricker than regular text. It requires changing the template that is used
to compile the TeX. Manim comes with acollection of :class:`~.TexFontTemplates` 
ready for you to use. These templates will all work in math mode:
```

.. manim:: LaTeXMathFonts
    :save_last_frame:

    class LaTeXMathFonts(Scene):
        def construct(self):
            tex = Tex(r'$x^2 + y^2 = z^2$', tex_template=TexFontTemplates.french_cursive).scale(3)
            self.add(tex)

> Manim also has a :class:`~.TexTemplateLibrary` containing the TeX 
> templates used by 3Blue1Brown. One example is the ctex template,
> used for typesetting Chinese. For this to work, the ctex LaTeX package
> must be installed on your system. Furthermore, if you are only 
> typesetting Text, you probably do not need :class:`~.Tex` at all, and 
> should use :class:`~.Text` instead.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Manim also has a :class:`~.TexTemplateLibrary` containing the TeX 
templates used by 3Blue1Brown. One example is the ctex template,
used for typesetting Chinese script. For this to work, the ctex LaTeX package
must be installed on your system. Furthermore, if you are only 
typesetting Text, you probably do not need :class:`~.Tex` at all, and 
should use :class:`~.Text` instead.
```
